docs/guide/cli/cli_yaml.rst, before:

Customising CLI planning with yaml settings
===========================================

The planning commands in the CLI can be made more powerful by supplying
"yaml" formatted files to customise the planning algorithms.
This settings file has a series of sections for customising the different algorithms,
as an example, the settings file which re-specifies the default behaviour would look like ::

  network:
    method: plan_minimal_spanning_tree
  mapper:
    method: LomapAtomMapper
    settings:
      time: 1
      threed: True
      max3d: 0.95
      element_change: True

The name of the algorithm is given behind the ``method:`` key and the arguments to the
algorithm are then optionally given behind the ``settings:`` key.
Both the `network:` and `mapper:` sections are optional.

This is then provided to the ``openfe plan-rbfe-network`` command as ::

  openfe plan-rbfe-network -M molecules.sdf -P protein.pdb -s settings.yaml

Customising the atom mapper
---------------------------

There is a choice to be made as to which atom mapper is used,
currently included are the :class:`.LomapAtomMapper` and the :class:`.KartografAtomMapper`
For example to switch to using the ``Kartograf`` atom mapper, this settings yaml could be used ::

  mapper:
    method: KartografAtomMapper
    settings:
      atom_max_distance: 0.95
      atom_map_hydrogens: True
      map_hydrogens_on_hydrogens_only: False
      map_exact_ring_matches_only: True

Full details on these options can be found in the `Kartograf documentation`_.

.. _Kartograf documentation: https://kartograf.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api/kartograf.mappers.html#kartograf.atom_mapper.KartografAtomMapper

Customising the network planner
-------------------------------

There are a variety of network planning options available, including
:func:`.generate_radial_network`,
:func:`.generate_minimal_spanning_network`, and
:func:`.generate_minimal_redundant_network`.

For example to plan a radial network using a ligand called 'CHEMBL1078774' as the central ligand, this settings yaml
could be given ::

  network:
    method: generate_radial_network
    settings:
      central_ligand: CHEMBL1078774

Where the required ``central_ligand`` argument has been passed inside the ``settings:`` section.

Note that there is a subtle distinction when ligand names could be interpreted as integers.
To select the first ligand, the **integer** 0 can be given ::

  network:
    method: generate_radial_network
    settings:
      central_ligand: 0

Whereas if we wanted to specify the ligand named "0", we would instead explicitly pass this as **a string** to the yaml
settings file ::

  network:
    method: generate_radial_network
    settings:
      central_ligand: '0'

Commit message:

cli: docs: move docs on customising protocols
didn't render nicely via command line --help, so instead put the example code into the userguide docs

docs/guide/cli/cli_yaml.rst, after:

Customising CLI planning with yaml settings
===========================================

The planning commands in the CLI can be made more powerful by supplying
"yaml" formatted files to customise the planning algorithms.
This settings file has a series of sections for customising the different algorithms,
as an example, the settings file which re-specifies the default behaviour would look like ::

  network:
    method: plan_minimal_spanning_tree
  mapper:
    method: LomapAtomMapper
    settings:
      time: 1
      threed: True
      max3d: 0.95
      element_change: True
  protocol:
    method: RelativeHybridTopologyProtocol

The name of the algorithm is given behind the ``method:`` key and the arguments to the
algorithm are then optionally given behind the ``settings:`` key.
The ``network:``, ``mapper:``, and ``protocol:`` sections are all optional.

This is then provided to the ``openfe plan-rbfe-network`` command as ::

  openfe plan-rbfe-network -M molecules.sdf -P protein.pdb -s settings.yaml

Customising the atom mapper
---------------------------

There is a choice to be made as to which atom mapper is used,
currently included are the :class:`.LomapAtomMapper` and the :class:`.KartografAtomMapper`
For example to switch to using the ``Kartograf`` atom mapper, this settings yaml could be used ::

  mapper:
    method: KartografAtomMapper
    settings:
      atom_max_distance: 0.95
      atom_map_hydrogens: True
      map_hydrogens_on_hydrogens_only: False
      map_exact_ring_matches_only: True

Full details on these options can be found in the `Kartograf documentation`_.

.. _Kartograf documentation: https://kartograf.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api/kartograf.mappers.html#kartograf.atom_mapper.KartografAtomMapper

Customising the network planner
-------------------------------

There are a variety of network planning options available, including
:func:`.generate_radial_network`,
:func:`.generate_minimal_spanning_network`, and
:func:`.generate_minimal_redundant_network`.

For example to plan a radial network using a ligand called 'CHEMBL1078774' as the central ligand, this settings yaml
could be given ::

  network:
    method: generate_radial_network
    settings:
      central_ligand: CHEMBL1078774

Where the required ``central_ligand`` argument has been passed inside the ``settings:`` section.

Note that there is a subtle distinction when ligand names could be interpreted as integers.
To select the first ligand, the **integer** 0 can be given ::

  network:
    method: generate_radial_network
    settings:
      central_ligand: 0

Whereas if we wanted to specify the ligand named "0", we would instead explicitly pass this as **a string** to the yaml
settings file ::

  network:
    method: generate_radial_network
    settings:
      central_ligand: '0'

Customising the Protocol
-------------------------

The Settings of a Protocol can be customised.  The settings variable names map directly between the Python API and
yaml settings files.  For example, to customise the production length of
the RFE Protocol, from Python would require a line of code such as::

   settings.simulation_settings.production_length = '5.4 ns'

This would be achieved via the yaml file as::

  protocol:
    method: RelativeHybridTopologyProtocol
    settings:
      simulation_settings:
        production_length: 5.4 ns
